DATA.md, before:

# About The Data

## Developer Velocity

We take the median story points of all finished tasks per day to get the velocity for each developer.

To get the teams velocity we take the median story points of all developers in a team.

A task can have multiple developers assigned to it(e.g. PairProgramming or GroupProgramming).
For now, each developer assigned to a task will claim the same amount of story points, when a task is finished.

## Task Burn Down

The Task Burn Down Chart show the estimated time when a task will be finished by the team.
To calculate the burn down estimation for a single task we take the current velocity of the team per day and subtract
the velocity from the remaining story points each day until the task is done.

To get the Burn Down Metric for all the tasks we aggregate all the tasks remaining story points and estimate based on
the teams velocity.

The aggregated burn down will not show when individual tasks are done. However the estimated time will still be the time
all tasks are done since addition is associative.

## Developer Specific Dashboard

Each developer gets sees his/her own velocity and the teams velocity.
Each developer sees each current task and the estimation for his/her velocity and the teams to finish each task.

Commit message:

add: some thoughts about the velocity data

DATA.md, after:

# About The Data

## Developer Velocity

We take the median story points of all finished tasks per day to get the velocity for each developer.

To get the teams velocity we take the median story points of all developers in a team.

A task can have multiple developers assigned to it(e.g. PairProgramming or GroupProgramming).
For now, each developer assigned to a task will claim the same amount of story points, when a task is finished.

How much historical data is relevant to judge the velocity of your team or single developer. A year or up to ten years
of daily developer velocity can have wildly different velocities over time. Management changes. Team members change.
Experience changes. All influence the way teams and developer estimate. A changing estimation influences the velocity
tracked.

Developers stay with a company on average for 2 years. This reduces the possible vast amounts of data that have to be
parsed for each developer to get the velocity over there entire career at a company.

ℹ️ Based on a gut feeling, the developer velocity will be estimated on the tasks finished in the last eight weeks.

## Task Burn Down

The Task Burn Down Chart show the estimated time when a task will be finished by the team.
To calculate the burn down estimation for a single task we take the current velocity of the team per day and subtract
the velocity from the remaining story points each day until the task is done.

To get the Burn Down Metric for all the tasks we aggregate all the tasks remaining story points and estimate based on
the teams velocity.

The aggregated burn down will not show when individual tasks are done. However the estimated time will still be the time
all tasks are done since addition is associative.

## Developer Specific Dashboard

Each developer gets sees his/her own velocity and the teams velocity.
Each developer sees each current task and the estimation for his/her velocity and the teams to finish each task.
